ReadMe.md, before:

# NPM Package 📦 – @muibook/components

Leverage reusable vanilla Web Components built with the Mui (MichaelUI) Design System in your project. Simply install the [@muibook/components](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@muibook/components?activeTab=readme) package to access a framework-agnostic, accessible, and customizable component library.

```bash
npm install @muibook/components
```

#### Component Usage

```javascript
import "@muibook/components"; // All
import "@muibook/components/mui-body"; // Individual
```

#### CSS Usage

```javascript
import "@muibook/components/css/mui-tokens.css";
import "@muibook/components/css/mui-base.css";
import "@muibook/components/css/mui-reset.css";
```

#### Agent Usage

```javascript
import "@muibook/components/agent/prompts";
import "@muibook/components/agent/keywords";
```

Links •
[npmjs.com](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@muibook/components?activeTab=readme) •
[Docs](https://muibook.com) •
[Usage](https://muibook.com) •
[Components](https://muibook.com)

---

# Create Mui App

Kickstart your project with a lightweight scaffold built on Vite. It comes preloaded with foundational CSS resets, a solid base structure, and design tokens ready to be customised for your brand.

- ⚡ Vite-powered: Lightning-fast development with HMR
- 🎨 Pre-configured theming: Design tokens and CSS custom properties
- 🧱 Component showcase: Curated set of MUI Components in a clean layout
- 📱 Responsive foundation: Mobile-first CSS resets and utilities
- 🔧 Customisable: Easy to adapt for your brand and requirements

Learn more at [Muibook.com](https://muibook.com/#/create-mui-app)

---

# Muibook Repository

Muibook is the home of the Mui Design System (MichaelUI) — native Web Components with clean, composable patterns that help you write less code.

- 📖 Comprehensive guides: From basic usage to advanced customization
- 🎨 Design principles: Learn the MichaelUI design language
- 🔧 API reference: Detailed documentation for every component
- 💡 Best practices: Proven patterns for scalable design systems

Learn more about [Muibook.com](https://muibook.com)

---

### Start Development Server

This project is powered by [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/) and uses TypeScript to provide a fast, modern development experience for building and previewing web components.

```bash
npm run dev
```

- Starts Vite in development mode
- Opens the app at http://localhost:5173 (or next available port)
- Supports hot module replacement (HMR) for fast feedback

---

### Build Project

```bash
npm run build
```

- Compiles and bundles the project for production
- Outputs optimised files into the dist/ directory

---

### Build Muibook

```bash
npm run build:muibook
```

- Builds the Muibook package using a custom Vite config (vite.muibook.config.ts)
- Produces a minified CSS and JS build for documentation

---

### Preview Muibook Build

```bash
npm run preview:muibook
```

- Serves the minified Muibook build locally for previewing the compiled output

---

### Build Create Mui App

```bash
npm run build:create-mui-app
```

- Builds the create-mui-app package using a custom Vite config (vite.create-mui-app.config.ts)
- Produces a minified CSS and JS build for documentation

---

### Preview Create Mui App Build

```bash
npm run preview:create-mui-app
```

- Serves the minified create-mui-app build locally for previewing the compiled output

---

### Setup

#### Install dependencies:

```bash
npm install
```

#### TypeScript Support:

```bash
npm install --save-dev @types/node
```

---

### VS Code Plug-in

Install [es6-string-html](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Tobermory.es6-string-html) for better HTML template literal syntax highlighting.

---

### Publishing

#### Publish to NPM

```bash
npm publish
```

#### Version Management

```bash
npm version patch  # Increment patch version
npm version minor  # Increment minor version
npm version major  # Increment major version
```

#### Test Before Publishing

```bash
npm pack --dry-run  # Preview what will be published
```

---

### Development Notes

- Add any new components to `vite.config.ts` to include them in builds
- The dist/ folder is published, while source code and src/muibook are excluded
- Use the preview scripts to verify production builds before deployment
- Follow semantic versioning for releases

---

### License

- ![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)
- MIT License - see LICENSE file for details.

Commit message:

Added the thinking around slotted components and logic if required.

ReadMe.md, after:

# NPM Package 📦 – @muibook/components

Leverage reusable vanilla Web Components built with the Mui (MichaelUI) Design System in your project. Simply install the [@muibook/components](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@muibook/components?activeTab=readme) package to access a framework-agnostic, accessible, and customizable component library.

```bash
npm install @muibook/components
```

#### Component Usage

```javascript
import "@muibook/components"; // All
import "@muibook/components/mui-body"; // Individual
```

#### CSS Usage

```javascript
import "@muibook/components/css/mui-tokens.css";
import "@muibook/components/css/mui-base.css";
import "@muibook/components/css/mui-reset.css";
```

#### Agent Usage

```javascript
import "@muibook/components/agent/prompts";
import "@muibook/components/agent/keywords";
```

Links •
[npmjs.com](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@muibook/components?activeTab=readme) •
[Docs](https://muibook.com) •
[Usage](https://muibook.com) •
[Components](https://muibook.com)

---

# Create Mui App

Kickstart your project with a lightweight scaffold built on Vite. It comes preloaded with foundational CSS resets, a solid base structure, and design tokens ready to be customised for your brand.

- ⚡ Vite-powered: Lightning-fast development with HMR
- 🎨 Pre-configured theming: Design tokens and CSS custom properties
- 🧱 Component showcase: Curated set of MUI Components in a clean layout
- 📱 Responsive foundation: Mobile-first CSS resets and utilities
- 🔧 Customisable: Easy to adapt for your brand and requirements

Learn more at [Muibook.com](https://muibook.com/#/create-mui-app)

---

# Muibook Repository

Muibook is the home of the Mui Design System (MichaelUI) — native Web Components with clean, composable patterns that help you write less code.

- 📖 Comprehensive guides: From basic usage to advanced customization
- 🎨 Design principles: Learn the MichaelUI design language
- 🔧 API reference: Detailed documentation for every component
- 💡 Best practices: Proven patterns for scalable design systems

Learn more about [Muibook.com](https://muibook.com)

---

### Start Development Server

This project is powered by [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/) and uses TypeScript to provide a fast, modern development experience for building and previewing web components.

```bash
npm run dev
```

- Starts Vite in development mode
- Opens the app at http://localhost:5173 (or next available port)
- Supports hot module replacement (HMR) for fast feedback

---

### Build Project

```bash
npm run build
```

- Compiles and bundles the project for production
- Outputs optimised files into the dist/ directory

---

### Build Muibook

```bash
npm run build:muibook
```

- Builds the Muibook package using a custom Vite config (vite.muibook.config.ts)
- Produces a minified CSS and JS build for documentation

---

### Preview Muibook Build

```bash
npm run preview:muibook
```

- Serves the minified Muibook build locally for previewing the compiled output

---

### Build Create Mui App

```bash
npm run build:create-mui-app
```

- Builds the create-mui-app package using a custom Vite config (vite.create-mui-app.config.ts)
- Produces a minified CSS and JS build for documentation

---

### Preview Create Mui App Build

```bash
npm run preview:create-mui-app
```

- Serves the minified create-mui-app build locally for previewing the compiled output

---

### Setup

#### Install dependencies:

```bash
npm install
```

#### TypeScript Support:

```bash
npm install --save-dev @types/node
```

---

### VS Code Plug-in

Install [es6-string-html](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Tobermory.es6-string-html) for better HTML template literal syntax highlighting.

---

### Publishing

#### Publish to NPM

```bash
npm publish
```

#### Version Management

```bash
npm version patch  # Increment patch version
npm version minor  # Increment minor version
npm version major  # Increment major version
```

#### Test Before Publishing

```bash
npm pack --dry-run  # Preview what will be published
```

---

### Development Notes

- Add any new components to `vite.config.ts` to include them in builds
- The dist/ folder is published, while source code and src/muibook are excluded
- Use the preview scripts to verify production builds before deployment
- Follow semantic versioning for releases

### Slot Implementation Approach (MUI Design System)

When implementing slots in MUI components, we use a consistent approach for styling and interaction:

#### Children Concerns

- We use JavaScript to query and manage slotted elements.
- To apply styles to a slotted item, we append a class in the format: [parent-component]-slot.
- The slotted component detects this class via :host(.parent-component) and applies the relevant styles.

#### Parent Concerns

- If the parent component needs to react to the presence of a specific slotted item, we add an attribute like has-[slottedComponentName] to the host.
- The parent component can then target this via :host([has-slottedComponentName]) for conditional styling.

This method keeps slot behavior declarative and styles predictable across components.

---

### License

- ![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)
- MIT License - see LICENSE file for details.
